


Block chain

a blockchain is a distributed and decentralized digital ledger that records transactions across multiple computers. Unlike traditional centralized systems, where a single entity has control over the data, blockchain operates on a peer-to-peer network, making it transparent and tamper-proof.


Features of block chain:

*Decentralization.
Decentralization in blockchain refers to transferring control and decision making from a centralized entity (individual, organization, or group) to a distributed network. Decentralized blockchain networks use transparency to reduce the need for trust among participants. These networks also deter participants from exerting authority or control over one another in ways that degrade the functionality of the network.

*Consensus.
A blockchain system establishes rules about participant consent for recording transactions. You can record new transactions only when the majority of participants in the network give their consent.

Types of blockchain

1)Public block chain

Public blockchains are permissionless and allow everyone to join them. All members of the blockchain have equal rights to read, edit, and validate the blockchain. People primarily use public blockchains to exchange and mine cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin, Ethereum, and Litecoin. 

2)Private blockchain networks

A single organization controls private blockchains, also called managed blockchains. These are permissioned blockchain.The authority determines who can be a member and what rights they have in the network. Private blockchains are only partially decentralized because they have access restrictions

3)Hybrid blockchain networks

Hybrid blockchains combine elements from both private and public networks. Companies can set up private, permission-based systems alongside a public system. In this way, they control access to specific data stored in the blockchain while keeping the rest of the data public. 

4)Consortium blockchain networks

A group of organizations governs consortium blockchain networks. It is 
also known as federated blockchain..It is controlled by predetermined nodes..It is responsible for initiating, recieving, validating transactions.
Eg:
1) Health care technology-In this it helps in managing patients records.

Usecases of block chain technology

1)Healthcare and the Life Sciences

Blockchain-based healthcare solutions will enable faster, more efficient, and more secure medical data management and medical supply tracking. This could significantly improve patient care, facilitate the advancement to medical discoveries, and ensure the authenticity of drugs circulating global markets

2) Digital Identity

Building Trust in the digital world.
Biometrics strengthening, digital identity Authentication.
